<!-- source: 2022年北京市中考英语真题（空白卷）.docx -->

**2022****北京中考真题**

**英****    ****语**

**第一部分**

**本部分共****33****题，共****40****分。在每题列出的四个选项中，选出最符合题目要求的一项。**

**一、单项填空（每题****0.5****分，共****6****分）**

**从下面各题所给的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中，选择可以填入空白处的最佳选项。**

1. My sister is only six, but ________ can already help with some housework.

A. he	B. she	C. it	D. they

2. We have history class ________ three o’clock every Friday afternoon.

A. at	B. on	C. in	D. to

3. —_________ I take photos here?

—Sorry, you can’t. It’s not allowed in the museum.

A. Must	B. Need	C. Can	D. Will

4. After taking tennis classes, Tim is much ________ than last year.

A. strong	B. stronger	C. strongest	D. the strongest

5. —_________ will Liu Yang stay in the space station this time?

—For six months.

A. How long	B. How often	C. How much	D. How soon

6. Mr. Smith has helped me a lot, _________ I’m thankful to him.

A. or	B. but	C. for	D. so

7. The workers _________ the community center now.

A. cleaned	B. were cleaning	C. will clean	D. are cleaning

8. Don’t lose heart. If you keep working hard, you _________ some day.

A. will succeed	B. succeed	C. succeeded	D. have succeeded

9. I ________ about my sister when my phone rang. It was her!

A. think	B. will think	C. was thinking	D. am thinking

10. Jim _________ a lot about Chinese culture since he began to study in our school.

A. learns	B. learned	C. will learn	D. has learned

11. On our farm, the tea leaves ________ by hand when they are ready.

A. pick	B. picked	C. are picked	D. were picked

12. —Do you know _________ the new national park?

—Yes, I do. To protect wildlife and benefit the local people.

A. why did China set up	B. why China set up

C when did China set up	D. when China set up

**二、完形填空（每题****1****分，共****8****分）**

阅读下面的短文，掌握其大意，然后从短文后各题所给的A、B、C、D四个选项中，选择最佳选项。

Our Christmas Goose

On a cold morning that December, my brother Rick and I were sent to Uncle Tommie’s on the other side of Little Mountain to get a goose for Christmas dinner. This long journey over the mountain was hard but worth it.

That morning, dark clouds were coming together overhead. I knew it was going to snow on the ____13____.

When we arrived, Uncle Tommie was already waiting for us. “Boys, I’m not ____14____ you off,” he said, “but the wind is picking up. You’d better get the goose and head for home soon.”

After a quick thank-you and goodbye I took the goose and we left. Halfway up the mountain, it began to snow heavily. I held the goose ____15____ to me.

By the time we reached the top of the mountain. it showed more heavily. And the wind seemed to blow straight through my coat. I stepped in front of Rick. “You must be cold. Open your coat!”

“Are you crazy?” Rick asked. “I’ll lose what little warmth I have!” When he saw I was ____16____, he slowly opened his coat.

I placed the warm goose inside his coat. Rick sighed happily (舒了口气). My plan was ____17____ .

On the way down, I started to shiver (发抖). Rick said. “Dave. it's your turn now.”

He passed me the goose. For a long moment, I just stood and ____18____ my freezing(冰冷的) hands on his body. We passed the goose back and forth (来回地) between us all the way. Finally, We got home.

Sitting at the table, we explained how the goose kept us from freezing. “We can’t have him for dinner! This goose helped ____19____ our lives,” I said.

Later, we named the goose Charley and he lived out his life in the yard, bossing around the chickens and another goose we bought to keep him company. A life as the most important bird was fitting for our ____20____.

13. A. mountain	B. island	C. lake	D. beach

14. A. paying	B. rushing	C. showing	D. calling

15. A. lightly	B. secretly	C. high	D. close

16. A. frightened	B. regretful	C. serious	D. surprised

17. A. working	B. continuing	C. improving	D. changing

18. A. raised	B. dried	C. warmed	D. examined

19. A. spare	B. save	C. treasure	D. give

20. A. leader	B. boss	C. guide	D. hero

**三、阅读理解（每题****2****分，共****26****分）**

**阅读下列短文，根据短文内容****，从短文后各题所给的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中，选择最佳选项。**

**A**

WHO IS YOUR ROLE MODEL? WHY?

| My role model is my neighbor Ms. Li. She is in her eighties now but she is still young at heart. I often see her riding her bike in the park and she also spends time doing volunteer work. She helps me understand that people won’t be old if they still have a great love for life.<br>Adam | I miss Mrs. White most after primary school. She was our math teacher and always patient with us. She helped us to work out the answers ourselves, no matter how difficult the questions were. So Mrs. White is my role model, and I want to be a teacher like her in the future.<br>Betty |
| --- | --- |
| Norman Bethune was a Canadian doctor. In 1938, Dr. Bethune came to China and helped treat the wounded. He often worked very hard without resting. Once, he managed to save over one hundred lives in sixty-nine hours. He is still remembered in both China and Canada today. So he is my role model.<br>Peter | Yuan Longping is my role model. He is one of the greatest agricultural (农业的) scientists of our time. He worked hard to grow better rice to solve the problems of food shortage. It is sad that Mr. Yuan has left us, but his dreams are carried by many plant and agricultural researches.<br>Emma |

21. Who is Emma’s role model?

A. Ms. Li.	B. Mrs. White.

C Norman Bethune.	D. Yuan Longping.

22. What does Betty want to be in the future?

A. A teacher.	B. A scientist.	C. A doctor.	D.  A volunteer.

23. What do we know about Ms. Li?

A. She worked in a hospital.

B. She solved the food problems.

C. She is old in age but young at heart.

D. She is very patient with her students.

**B**

I joined a band （乐队）as a drummer in my middle school. I thought it would be fun playing the drum and meeting new friends. At first it was easy, but a month later, it got difficult. I was the only one who couldn’t keep pace （节奏）with the other players.

Our teacher, Angie, singled me out to keep practicing while everyone else got to relax. I felt ashamed （羞愧）as my teammates watched me fail so many times. Finally I got so tired of practicing that I didn’t care about doing it right.

“Are you giving up on me. Steve?” Angie asked.

“Yes, I am,” I shouted. Angie sent me inside the music room where I cried out. Then she came in and said. “Don’t be sad. I believe you can make it!” She told me never to give up. She left me alone and I realized Angie was right—by giving up, I was also giving up on the team and myself.

With her comfort, I decided to go on practicing. However, I still couldn’t play well. Knowing my difficulties, my teammates gave me a hand. They spent about three more hours practicing with me every week. Thanks to their support and help, I began to keep pace with them. Later, we performed wonderfully in an important show.

In the whole process I was taught that although we each had our own job to do in a show, it would take all of us working together to make the show great. I felt accepted and made great progress. I love everyone in the band. I can’t imagine what my school life would be like without them.

24. One month after he joined the band, Steve felt playing the drum was _________.

A. funny	B. helpful	C. noisy	D. difficult

25. With Angie’s comfort, Steve decided to _________.

A. have a good rest	B. go on practicing

C. give others a hand	D. start another band

26. From his experience, Steve learned about ________.

A. the value of teamwork	B. the effect of shows

C. the importance of hobbies	D. the power of music

**C**

What does it mean to be green? Green is more than just a color. It also means taking special steps to protect the environment. Buying a green product is a small step everyone can take. Deciding whether a product is green, however, isn’t always easy. We need to consider the whole life cycle of the product even after it’s of no use. Here is what we may keep in mind.

The materials of a product are usually our first focus (关注). What is it made of? Are there any harmful chemicals in it? Green products are made of more natural materials which are free from harmful chemicals, so they can be good for our physical health.

Packaging is important. How is a product packaged? Is it over packaged? We’d better choose glass, metal and paper packaging, as these can be reused or more easily recycled (回收利用). We can also look for less packaging or even choose unbagged products whenever possible.

Location (地点) matters. Where was a product produced? Where are we buying it? Think about how much energy was used to get it to us try to choose local products. When it comes to food, it is a good idea to order directly from local farmer, shop at markets and buy fruits in season. Buying from stores near our houses is also a good choice, because we can go there without driving a car.

Look into what the company tells us about their product. It’s easy to say that a product is “green” or “all natural” but the words may be too good to be true. So, much of the information about a product should be taken with a grain of salt. After all, companies try to make us believe that their products are environmentally responsible.

The greenest thing is certainly the one we don’t buy. Things like food and clothing are necessary for life. But many others are not. Better than buying is choosing to leave an unnecessary product in the store and doing without. It sends a message to the producer, keeps money in our pockets, reduces (减少) waste and keeps the planet healthy.

27. The writer would suggest choosing a product that is ________.

A. over packaged	B. delivered from abroad

C. locally produced	D. made of unnatural materials

28. The words “be taken with a grain of in salt” Paragraph 5 probably mean “________”.

A. be easily understood	B. not be completely believed

C. be widely spread	D. not be quickly forgotten

29. Which of the following would be the best title for the passage?

A. Buying Green	B. Recycling Waste

C. Keeping Healthy	D. Reducing Energy Use

**D**

A Pathway (路径) to Meaning in Life

When it comes to a meaningful life, we might think of love, happiness and health. A life filled with meaning is what most of us want for ourselves. Then, what makes a meaningful life?

Many researchers agree that a meaningful life comes down to three factors (因素): having long-term goals, believing that one’s life matters, and feeling that one’s life fits together and “makes sense”.

But we believe there is more to consider. Sometimes life enables us to experience small moments of beauty. When people are open to appreciating (欣赏) such experiences these moments may improve how they see their own life. We call this experiential appreciation (EA). EA is about the person feeling connected to events and being able to appreciate the value within the connection. It shows the discovery of and admiration for life’s beauty.

We recently set out to better understand EA in studies. We were interested in whether EA was also tied to general judgment of meaning in life. If so, it could be a factor for meaningfulness.

In the first study, we had people rate (评估) their support for different methods of reducing stress. We found that people who managed stress by focusing on their appreciation for life’s beauty also reported experiencing life as highly meaningful.

In the next study, we asked people to rate the degree to which they agreed with various statements, such as “I appreciate the beauty of life” and “I appreciate little things in life,” as well as other statements that related to the three factors and a general sense of meaning in life. Our results showed that the more people reported that they were “appreciating life” and its many experiences, the more they felt their life was valuable.

In the following studies, we further looked at the connection between EA and meaningfulness. For example, we found that people who were asked to look back on the most meaningful event of the past week generally reported high EA in those moments.

All the results proved our theory (假设) true. But putting it into practice can be difficult. Our fast-paced lifestyles fill the day with goals. We try to get the highest output both at work and in spare time. This focus on future outcomes makes it all too easy to miss what is happening right now. We should slow down and let life surprise us.

30. You were most probably in the EA condition when _________.

A. you made a travel plan for the coming holiday

B. you hurried to serve the customers in the store

C. you practiced hard to become the best violinist

D. you stopped to admire the roses by the roadside

31. What can we learn from the studies mentioned in the passage?

A. Thinking back to the past weakens our sense of meaning.

B. Enjoying small things can influence our attitude toward life.

C. Proper stress management is the key to living a satisfying life.

D. Good judgment on beauty improves connections among people.

32. What does the last paragraph mainly tell us?

A. It is easier for results-driven people to achieve success.

B. We often turn a blind eye to the present moment.

C. A fast-paced lifestyle helps us reach our goals.

D. Future life will bring us many more surprises.

33. What is the writer’s main purpose in writing this passage?

A. To explain how to discover beauty in life.

B. To discuss what the true meaning of life is.

C. To introduce a new factor for a meaningful life.

D. To compare different factors for meaningfulness.

**第二部分**

**本部分共****6****题，共****20****分。根据题目要求，完成相应任务。**

**四、阅读表达（每题****2****分，共****10****分）**

阅读短文，根据短文内容回答问题。

Working Out through Online Videos

Physical exercise is good for our mind, body and spirit. Today, working out through online videos is becoming very popular. Since the Internet is widely used, it’s very easy for us to do so. That means we can work out anytime anywhere.

One of my friends, Lin Fei. followed short workout videos to do daily exercise. “With live programs, I feel like working out with my friends, which encourages me to hold on to the last minute.” she said. Another friend of mine, Michael, told me that workout videos let him feel so comfortable. “I have a fear of working out at the gym（健身房）because I don’t like being watched by others. Working out at home makes working out much more enjoyable.” he said.

With their examples, I decided to give it a try. When I told my plan to my elder sister, a P.E. teacher, she reminded me that workout videos could be helpful but might still carry some problems.

“Without being with someone in person, you will be less willing （愿意的）to work out to your best. Working out at the gym allows you to have advice in real time and get pushed harder.” my sister said to me. “Well, if you really want to have a try. first, choose proper programs or videos. That’s very important. And then ask your friends for advice. Their experiences can give you a good sight into what you can expect. Anyway, don’t be addicted（沉迷的）to it. You should try different ways to work out to be healthy.”

At her suggestions, I finally followed an online workout program with personalized help that is held for three months. After the first period of training, I felt it very practical and helpful when I put in the right amount （量） of work along with a strong will. Compared with going to the gym, using online videos to work out is a much cheaper and time-saving choice. But it can be difficult sometimes when I’m too lazy or too busy to stick to it.

34. Which way to work out is becoming very popular today?

__________________________________________________________________

35. Why does Michael dislike working out at the gym?

__________________________________________________________________

36. What is the problem of working out without someone else in person?

__________________________________________________________________

37. How did the writer feel about his first period of training?

__________________________________________________________________

38. Would you like to follow online videos to work out? Why or why not?

__________________________________________________________________

**五****.****文段表达（****10****分）**

**从下面两个题目中任选一题，根据所给提示，完成一篇不少于****50****词的英语文段写作。文中已给出内容不计入总词数。所给提示词语仅供选用。请不要写出你的****校名和姓名。**

39. 假定你是李华，你的英国笔友Chris对中国文化很感兴趣，他给你发来邮件，询问中国人日常生活中的基本社交礼仪，如待人接物、餐桌礼仪等。请你用英语回复一封邮件，介绍你所知道的相关礼仪。

**提示词语：**manners, shake hands, polite, gift, chopsticks

**提示问题：**· What do we do when we meet people for the first time?

· How do we behave properly at table?

| Dear Chris,<br>I’m glad to know that you’re interested in Chinese social manners.<br>________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________<br>I hope the above is helpful. Please feel free to ask for more information.<br>Yours,<br>Li Hua |
| --- |

40.

某英文网站正在开展以“提升效率”为主题的征文活动。假定你是李华，请用英语写一篇短文投稿，谈谈你在学习或生活中是如何提升效率的，取得了什么效果。

**提示词语：**plan, task, attention, make use of, progress

**提示问题：**How do you increase your efficiency(效率)?

What have you achieved?

| High efficiency is important for a busy student. ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________<br> |
| --- |
