<!-- source: 2023年北京市中考英语真题（空白卷）.docx -->

**2023****年北京市初中学业水平考试**

**时间****: 90 ****分钟**** ****满分****: 60****分**

**第一部分**

**本部分共****33****题****, ****共****40****分。在每题列出的四个选项中****, ****选出最符合题目要求的一项。**

**一、单项填空**** (****每题****0. 5****分****, ****共****6****分****) **

**从下面各题所给的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中****, ****选择可以填入空白处的最佳选项**

1. My sister enjoys singing and ________ favorite subject is music.

A. his	B. her	C. your	D. their

2. It’s a good idea to visit Beijing ________ October.

A. at	B. on	C. in	D. to

3. —Must I stay here and wait for you?

—No, you ________. You can go home now.

A needn’t	B. can’t	C. mustn’t	D. shouldn’t

4. —Which do you like ________, swimming or skating?

—Swimming.

A. well	B. better	C. best	D. the best

5. —________ do you tidy your own room?

—Twice a week.

A. How often	B. How soon	C. How much	D. How long

6. It was difficult to climb the mountain, ________ Sam got to the top at last.

A. or	B. so	C. for	D. but

7. —Lucy, what are you doing?

—I ________ a model ship

A. make	B. made	C. am making	D. was making

8. The Shenzhou-15 astronauts ________ to Earth safely on June 4, 2023.

A. return	B. returned	C. will return	D. have returned

9. If you go to the concert with us tomorrow, you ________ a great time there.

A. have	B. had	C. will have	D. have had

10. Eric ________ many things since he became interested in science.

A. is learning	B. was learning	C. will learn	D. has learned

11. The park is getting more and more beautiful because more kinds of flowers ________ every year.

A. are planted	B. were planted	C. plant	D. planted

12. —Lily, can you tell me ________ during the Dragon Boat Festival this year?

—Sure. We ate zongzi and watched a dragon boat race.

A. what you will do	B. what you did	C. what will you do	D. what did you do

**二、完形填空**** (****每题****1****分****, ****共****8****分****) **

阅读下面的短文，掌握其大意，然后从短文后各题所给的A、B、C、D四个选项中，选择最佳选项。

**Be What’s Missing**

Where was that cashier (收银员)? Impatient, I quickly looked at my watch. I hardly had enough time to eat a sandwich and rush back to work.

I looked around the nearly empty ____13____, but the cashier was nowhere in sight. A woman stood wiping (擦) the far end of the counter. She looked at me coldly with sad, dark eyes.

I ____14____, getting angry. I’d been standing there for at least three minutes!

Controlling my anger, I remembered Mom’s words. “Whenever you find yourself in an unpleasant situation, just think about what is missing. If someone is unkind, then kindness is missing. If someone is hateful, then ____15____ is missing. If we will be what’s missing, then we’ll provide whatever the situation needs.”

And here I was in an unpleasant situation. How should I “be what’s missing”? What was missing was ____16____. Maybe I should just jump behind the counter and take my own order.

Just then the woman walked slowly towards me. “May I help you?” she asked, still ____17____. She looked so tired. No doubt, she was overworked.

I took a deep breath. With Mom’s words ringing in my head, I gave the woman my order ... and smiled. “How are you today?”

My question seemed to ____18____ her. She eyed me for a second before answering. “Not too good.”

“I’m sorry.” I said. “I hope it gets better starting right now.”

She almost smiled as she looked at me. “Thanks. I hope you’re right.”

I thought to myself as I ate my sandwich. We’re all the same, really. We have problems and angers, we get tired and we hurt. We need to be ____19____ to each other.

After eating, I wiped the table cleaner than usual, and put the tray (托盘) back nicely on the stand. The woman was watching me, a big smile on her face.

“Be what’s missing.” It ____20____.

13. A. restaurant	B. street	C. school	D. office

14. A. agreed	B. finished	C. waited	D. left

15. A. trust	B. love	C. patience	D. confidence

16. A. hope	B. advice	C. money	D. service

17. A. nervously	B. carefully	C. coldly	D. kindly

18. A. disappoint	B. hurt	C. trouble	D. surprise

19. A. nicer	B. cooler	C. closer	D. fairer

20. A. said	B. worked	C. read	D. ended

**三、阅读理解**** (****每题****2****分****, ****共****26****分****) **

**(****一****) ****阅读下列课程介绍****, ****请根据人物喜好和需求匹配最适合的课程****, ****并将课程所对应的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****选项填在相应位置上。选项中有一项为多余选项。**

**A**

**Short Art Courses**

| A. Wild Art<br>This course is about drawing and painting. You’ll use your new skills to make a wall poster of animals. And we’ve got lots of picture books to give you ideas. <br> | B. Art Matters<br>This course teaches you different drawing skills. We’ll get you to draw the latest styles of clothes. If you like designing clothes and want to study it at college, join us! <br> |
| --- | --- |
| C. Creative Art<br>This course is about making bags to keep your sports clothes in. We provide lots of materials. And you’ll visit art museums to get some creative ideas. <br> | D. Art Magic<br>This course is about telling good stories in pictures. There’ll be cartoon films to watch and instruction in how to draw your favorite characters. <br> |

21. ________ I’m interested in designing clothes and want to study it at college.

Alice

22. ________ I enjoy making wall posters of animals and I’d like to read picture books.

Tony

23. ________ I like making hags and want to visit art museums to get creative ideas.

Harry

**(****二****) ****阅读下列短文****, ****根据短文内容****, ****从短文后各题所给的****A****、****B****、****C****、****D****四个选项中****, ****选择最佳选项。**

**B**

Betty was excited to show her brother David the basket filled with seashells. But David was busy helping Dad get everything back into the car. “What are you going to do with those useless things?” he said. “You can’t take them home.”

“But I want these seashells,” Betty said unhappily. “Each one is a different shape and size. They are all special.”

Suddenly, David saw the water rising along the beach. He shouted to Betty, “The waves （海浪）are about to take your toys!” As Betty ran to get her things, she called to David, “Please put my seashells into the car!”

David was putting one of the beach chairs into the car when his foot accidentally knocked over the basket. As David lifted a heavy box, he slipped（滑倒）and dropped the box right on top of the seashells, breaking most of them into pieces.

Betty came back with her toys. When she saw her seashells broken, she began to cry. David started to pick up the seashells and place them carefully back into the basket.

Dad tried to explain to Betty that it was an accident. But Betty was still upset. David also felt sad. He thought about what he could do to make it up to his sister. When he got home, he had a perfect idea.

The next morning David waited for Betty with the basket of seashells and some strong glue. He also had a framed（装框的）photo of the two of them. Together they looked through the basket and found several seashells that were not broken and could still be used. Then they glued the seashells to the frame.

“I’m really sorry, Betty.” David said. “Yesterday I was very careless with something special to you.”

Betty looked at her brother and smiled. “You’re the best big brother ever!”

24. What did Betty think of the seashells?

A. Clean.	B. Useless.	C. Expensive.	D. Special.

25. Betty began to cry when ________.

A. she slipped and hurt herself	B. she knocked over the basket

C. she saw the broken seashells	D. she told her dad about the accident

26. David glued the seashells to the frame to ________.

A. make it up to his sister	B. develop his painting skill

C. prepare a gift for his dad	D. make the picture beautiful

**C**

Do you know that over 1/3 of all food produced in the world goes to waste? According to the United Nations (UN), every year around the world, about one billion (十亿) tons of food is wasted. At the same time, there are nearly one billion people who go hungry. Simply 1/4 of the food wasted is enough to keep them out of hunger. In addition, the wasted food produces over three billion tons of carbon dioxide (CO2), which speeds up climate (气候) change. What can we do to solve this food waste problem?

One effective solution is balancing food production with demand (需求). In hotels and other similar places, special instruments should be used so that cooking specialists just prepare and cook food as it is ordered.

Another effective solution is starting programs to reduce (减少) food waste. Stores and buyers can try their best to be creative in food waste reduction. For example, stores can provide customers with instructions telling them how to make full use of food. Buyers can try not fixing their eyes only on food of the best quality (质量). Sometimes, the food of non-top quality is also good enough to eat, or can be bought and then used to make delicious dishes.

One of the hardest solutions to achieve is for each and every one to buy and prepare food with a plan of their own so that less food is wasted. Challenging as it is, the use of meal plans in preparing food can play an important role in ending food waste in the family.

Food recycling is one of the known solutions. Efforts are now already in progress. Food that is not safe for humans to eat is recycled into other products such as animal feeds and clothing. Yet, there is still a long way to go and much for improvement in this area.

In a word, food waste has been one of the biggest problems in the world that have influenced us greatly. Many solutions have been found and many more are yet to be worked out. If each of us can put in more efforts, food waste is sure to be reduced for the good of our future.

27. According to the passage, what is a possible result of food waste?

A. The problem of worldwide hunger.	B. A big increase in food production.

C. The speed-up of climate change.	D. A sudden drop in population.

28. What can we learn from the passage?

A. Food recycling has been hugely successful.	B. Buyers should give up non-top quality food.

C. Stores should train people to make delicious dishes.	D. Meal plans in the family are hard to put into practice.

29. What is the passage mainly about?

A. Benefits of reducing food waste.	B. Solutions to the food waste problem.

C. The importance of fighting food waste.	D. The attitude to the food waste problem.

**D**

When considering the kind of experience that makes life better, most people first think that happiness depends on experiencing pleasure: good food, good jobs, all the comforts that money can buy. If we couldn’t have these, we might as well sit in front of the television on a quiet evening.

Pleasure is an important part of the quality of life, but by itself it doesn’t bring happiness. When people think further about what makes a worthy life, they tend (倾向于) to move beyond pleasant memories and begin to remember other events, other experiences that overlap (有重叠) pleasurable ones but fall into a group with a separate name: enjoyment. Enjoyable events take place when people have not only satisfied a need or met some earlier expectation, but also achieved something unexpected.

Enjoyment is characterized by a sense of curiosity of achievement. Playing a tennis game that improves one’s ability is enjoyable, as is reading a book that shows things in a new light, as is having a conversation that leads us to express ideas we didn’t know we had. None of these experiences may be especially pleasurable when they are taking place, but when we think back on them afterwards, we would say, “That really was fun” and wish they would happen again. After an enjoyable event we know that we have changed, and grown.

Experiences that give pleasure can also give enjoyment, but the two feelings are quite different. For example, everybody takes pleasure in eating. However, to enjoys food is more difficult — you have to pay enough attention to a meal, so as to sense and tell its various tastes. As this example suggests, we can experience pleasure without any **psychic energy**, while enjoyment happens only as a result of full attention. A person can feel pleasure without any effort, as long as certain parts in his brain are stimulated (刺激). But it’s impossible to enjoy a tennis game or a book without full attention. It’s for this reason that pleasure does not last long, nor does it make us grow. Growth requires full attention to goals that are new, that are relatively challenging.

Without enjoyment, life will go on, and it can even be pleasant. But it depends heavily on luck and the external (外部) environment. To achieve personal control over the quality of experience, however, we need to learn how to build enjoyment into what happens day in, day out.

30. You will most probably experience enjoyment when you ________.

A. buy expensive shoes	B. order a delicious meal

C. talk with friends for new ideas	D. sit quietly in front of a television

31. What do you know about pleasure and enjoyment from the passage?

A Enjoyment grows out of pleasure.

B. Pleasure and enjoyment come hand in hand.

C. Pleasurable experiences are part of enjoyable ones.

D. Some experiences provide both pleasure and enjoyment.

32. The words “**psychic energy**” in Paragraph 4 are closest in meaning to ________.

A. attention	B. interest	C. ability	D. knowledge

33. The writer probably agrees that ________.

A. feeling pleasure stops people from achieving growth

B. feeling enjoyment comes with achieving growth

C. a worthy life depends on luck and environment

D. pleasure is the key to a happy and worthy life

**第二部分**

**本部分共****5****题****, ****共****20****分。根据题目要求****, ****完成相应任务。**

**四、阅读表达**** (****第****34-36****题每题****2****分****, ****第****37****题****4****分****, ****共****10****分****) **

阅读短文，根据短文内容回答问题。

**My 100 Days Without a Mobile Phone**

When was the last time you left home without your mobile phone? Can you imagine yourself living a month, or even a year without checking your mobile phone from time to time?

As a busy modern person with lots of social connections, plans and responsibilities, I just cannot afford to not be in touch with the rest of the world. Staying connected to other people is a big part of my life. However, sometimes it can be bothersome (恼人的).

One day I discovered I was terribly tired out. I tried turning notifications (通知) off. But the fear of missing out something important made me check the phone more often than before. So, I simply stopped using my phone.

Well, to tell the truth, it was not simple at all. For the first couple of days, I had a big fear that all of my friends would soon forget about me. When I had a free moment, I had no idea what to get myself distracted (分心的) with, and the worries mixed with boredom kept bothering me.

However, after three weeks without a mobile phone, I started noticing changes — changes which I liked, and which drove me to not just continue the experiment, but in fact to reorganize some of my habits.

First of all, I noticed that I became much more focused (专注的). Before, while doing something, I would often find myself wondering what was going on online. After a month of staying away from my mobile phone, I found that the urge (冲动) was already not that strong and that my ability to focus improved.

I discovered that the world is a beautiful place. Before, I would look at it through my camera mostly: take a photo, post it, get some likes. Now, I saw beautiful people walking around and I sensed the seasons change. I could understand the actual beauty of the world, and I did not need anyone else to prove the value of this beauty through likes or shares.

Now, as 100 days have passed, I can say that the experiment was worth it. I am planning to stay away from my phone for as long as possible.

34. What made the writer check the phone more often than before?

___________________________________________

35. When did the writer start noticing his changes?

___________________________________________

36. What does the writer plan to do with his phone after the experiment?

___________________________________________

37. Would you like to follow the writer’s example? Why or why not? (Please give two reasons.)

___________________________________________

**五、文段表达**** (10****分****) **

**38. ****从下面两个题目中任选一题****, ****根据所给提示****, ****完成一篇不少于****50 ****词的英语文段写作。文中已给出内容不计入总词数。所给提示词语仅供选用。请不要写出你的校名和姓名。**

**题目①**

38. 假设你是李华。你们班想在毕业之前为学校做一件有意义的事，如种植纪念树、去校图书馆整理图书等。你打算邀请交换生Peter参加这次活动。请你用英文给他写一封电子邮件，告诉他活动内容、意义及安排。

提示词语：invite, plant, meaningful, beautiful, library

提示问题：What activity do you plan to do?

Why do you want to organize this activity?

When and where will you have this activity?

Dear Peter,

How is everything going?

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Hope to hear from you soon.

Yours,

Li Hua

**题目②**

39. 同学们参加过各种各样的社团，如篮球队、合唱团等。

假设你是李华。请你用英语写一篇短文给学校英文网站投稿，介绍一个你参加过的社团，谈谈这个社团的活动内容以及你的收获。

提示词语：take part in, practice, skill, benefit, progress

提示问题：What club did you join?

What did you do in the club?

What have you learned from the experience?

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
